The Human Genome Project -- to sequence all genes in human DNA -- took over a decade and about $5 billion dollars to complete. Today, we can get the same results in 2 months for about $5000, or even over a weekend if we really need it. As a result, more and more people have access to genetic testing. For many families affected by inheritable conditions, these tests can be invaluable. But is this the precision medicine revolution we've been promised? In this episode of Raw Talk Podcast, we gather experts in genetic testing and genetic counselling to find out. We'll explore what genetic testing really looks like, what the results can mean for families, and learn about the growing field of genetic counselling. First, we spoke with Dr. Raymond Kim, medical geneticist at the University Health Network, who told us about the history and future trajectory of medical genetics. We also sat down with genetic counsellors Stacy Hewson and Laura Zahavich, who direct and lecture for the genetic counselling master's program here at the University of Toronto; they shared with us their challenging but rewarding experiences supporting families to order, interpret, and process genetic tests. Finally, we heard from Huntington's Disease researcher and carrier Dr. Jeff Carroll, who shared his story with genetic testing personally and while family planning. We hope to shed a light on the exciting fields of medical genetics and genetic counselling, and the growing number of genetic tools that might truly revolutionize healthcare as we know it.



Precision genetics has come a long way. In today’s world, people affected or suspected to be affected by a genetic condition can access genetic counselling and testing. With sequencing costs becoming lower, more and younger people will have access to this type of test, but what if the result shows a gene variant? What happens? Sadly, there is a lot of uncertainty around the effects of genetic variants. In episode 96 of Raw Talk, we gather specialists in genetics, genetic testing, and counselling to understand the current state of the art of precision medicine in Canada. We dived deep into all aspects of genetic disorders, from getting tested, understanding results, to the selection of embryos and disability advocacy. 



We interviewed the genetic counsellors Stacey Hewson and Laura Zahavich, the medical geneticist Dr. Raymond Kim and the Hungtington disease researcher and carrier Dr. Jeff Carroll, one of the first people to go through IVF-PGD, that avoided passing the Huntington Disease gene to his children. This episode aims to shine a light on the genetic counselling profession and genetic testing to educate listeners on the available genetic tools that are revolutionizing health as we speak. 
